---
Type: Demon
Home Script: Experimental
Wins: 
Losses: "1"
---
# "Each night*, choose 3 players (all players learn who): each silently chooses to live or die, but if all live, all die."

## Summary
The Al-Hadikhia puts three players in a dilemma – who will choose to die, so that others can live?

- The Al-Hadikhia chooses three players per night. Everyone learns which three were chosen. Each player makes their choice before the next player is revealed.
- All players must be silent when the Al-Hadikhia acts at night. This period lasts from when the Storyteller first declares that a player has been chosen, until the Storyteller says that it ends.
- At night, the Storyteller asks players out loud if they choose to live. If they nod their head, they live. If they shake their head, they die. Players may be brought back to life this way.
- If all players choose to live, then they all die instead. If a living player chose to die but did not die, they count as alive for this calculation.
## How to Run
Each night except the first, wake the Al-Hadikhia. They point at three players. Mark these players with the **1**, **2** and **3** reminders, in the order the Al-Hadikhia chose. Put the Al- Hadikhia to sleep. Wake the player marked **1** and say “The Al- Hadikhia has chosen” then the name of the player, then “Do you choose to live?” They either nod or shake their head. Put them to sleep. If they chose to live, remove their shroud (_if any_), and if they choose to **die**, add a shroud. Repeat for players marked **2** then **3**. If all three players are alive (_none of them have a shroud_) then add a shroud to all three. They **die**. Declare that the time of silence has ended.

Each dawn, declare which players marked **1**, **2** and **3** are alive and which are dead. Do this even if a player’s alive or dead status did not change during the night.

>You may need to remind all players to be silent as the Al-Hadikhia acts. This includes non-verbal noise. This prevents players signaling to others about whether they have chosen to live or die.
### Examples
>The Al-Hadikhia chooses Evin, Lachlan, and Sarah. Evin chooses to die. Lachlan chooses to die. Sarah chooses to live. In the morning, Evin and Lachlan are dead, and Sarah is alive.

>The Al-Hadikhia chooses Alex, Lewis, and Doug, who is dead. Alex chooses life. Lewis chooses life. Doug chooses life, so is now alive. Since all players are now alive, all three players die.


## Discord How to Run
Each night other than the first night, the Al-Hadikhia chooses exactly three unique players. As per usual, these can be any players, dead/alive, Traveller/resident. Put the Al-Hadikhia to sleep, then announce that there is an Al-Hadikhia in play and silence is required. From now until the Al-Hadikhia activation is completed, all players must stay silent and not communicate until you announce otherwise. 

In the order that the Al-Hadikhia chose, announce “The Al-Hadikhia has chosen…” and then the relevant player’s name so that all players hear. Wake that player, and ask “Do you choose to live?” They either nod or shake their head, then put them back to sleep. If they choose to live, remove their death shroud in the grimoire (if applicable) and if they choose to die, add a shroud. Repeat for the 2nd and 3rd players, announcing the same format of “The Al-Hadikhia has chosen [name]” each time. After waking the third player and taking their choice, if all three players are alive, all three die. Announce that the time of silence has ended. It is still preferable for players to not discuss who chose to live and die during the night because it’s discussing night actions during the night, but they can go back to discussing other matters. In the morning, announce who has died and who, if anyone, has come back to life through the Al-Hadikhia ability. 

Note that the 1st player does not know who the Al-Hadikhia’s 2nd and 3rd choices are, nor do later choices know whether the earlier choices chose to live or die. Online, this means you will need to not actually shroud the players if using clocktower.online, you will instead need to use the “Chose death” and “Chose life” reminder tokens in the tool as an alternative. 

The silence is also specifically intended so that no other players can influence these decisions, so if you’re playing in person you will need to clarify that this includes all forms of communication, pointing or thumbs-up/down etc are also forbidden, for example. 

It's also worth noting the phrasing after the “but”: “if all live, all die”. As described above, the question isn’t whether all three _choose_ live, but whether all three _actually_ live. So if, for example, a Soldier, an Empath and a Fortune Teller are chosen and the Soldier shakes their head to die and the other two nod to live, the Soldier cannot die to the Demon due to their ability, so the Soldier would live despite choosing death and the other two would live as they chose life. At the end, therefore, of the Al-Hadikhia’s activation, all three would be alive, so all three should die. Again, however, the Soldier cannot die, so only the other two would now die. 

It’s also worth bearing in mind that the order is relevant here, so each player lives or dies in turn. This includes at the end of the process, if all three live, all three die in the order they were chosen. 

As usual, any players that are resurrected through the Al-Hadikhia get any “start knowing” information, have any once per game abilities refreshed and are woken that night if their place in the night order is after the Al-Hadikhia. If a player died the same night through non-Demon means and then was resurrected through the Al-Hadikhia they would not know this, unless through an ability that varies based on it being their new first night. Bear in mind that even though they have not appeared to die publicly, their ability is nonetheless refreshed. [Setup abilities], as usual, are not repeated mid-game even if the player is resurrected. 

If an Al-Hadikhia is drunk/poisoned, the Al-Hadikhia is woken to make their choices, but nothing is announced and no other players are woken.
## Interesting Interactions
- [[Balloonist]]: If resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia restarts their info from scratch. 
- [[Bounty Hunter]]: If the [[Bounty Hunter]] dies and is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia (or anything else) they would be told an evil player when they come back to life. This may be the same as previously or a new evil player. If the evil player the [[Bounty Hunter]] saw dies, the [[Bounty Hunter]] sees a new player and then the previously seen player comes back to life through the Al-Hadikhia, the [[Bounty Hunter]] does not see another new player when that previously seen player dies again. (For example, BH sees X on N1. D1, X is executed, N2 BH sees Y but X is resurrected by Al-Hadikhia. D2 X is executed again. N3, BH does not get a new name, their current “known” evil player is still Y.) 
- [[Cannibal]]: Even if the Al-Hadikhia resurrects the most recently killed executee the [[Cannibal]] still has their ability, because they are still the recently killed executee even though they are alive again. If the [[Cannibal]] themselves is resurrected, they immediately gain the relevant ability. 
- [[Chambermaid]]: Does not register an Al-Hadikhia target as waking (if they wouldn’t otherwise wake), because it is due to the Al-Hadikhia ability that they’re waking. 
- [[Choirboy]]: Order is important, so if the [[King]] chooses to die and is able to do so, the [[Choirboy]] would be woken and told which player is the Demon, even if the [[Choirboy]] chooses to die later in the Al-Hadikhia’s selections. 
- [[Courtier]]: Not particularly fun to put in scripts with the Al-Hadikhia – everyone will know the Al-Hadikhia is in play by day 2 and it’s a no-brainer to pick them at that point, which is completely unbluffable by the evil team and a [[Courtier]] will thus always be confirmed and get to wipe out the Al-Hadikhia for 3 nights. 
- [[Exorcist]]: Indistinguishable from the Al-Hadikhia being drunk/poisoned from the Town’s point of view, the Al-Hadikhia just doesn’t get to choose that night and so no announcement is made. 
- [[Farmer]]: There can be multiple living good Famers if the [[Farmer]] dies (creating another Farmer) and then is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia. 
- [[Fool]]/[[Sailor]]/[[Tea Lady]]: See above examples replacing [[Soldier]] with “unused [[Fool]]”/”sober [[Sailor]]”/”[[Tea Lady]] neighbour”. Note that, in the [[Fool]]’s case, an unused Fool could choose die and use their ability, then when the Al-Hadikhia activation is complete if the other two selections are also still alive, then all three would die, which would be the Fool’s second death, killing them outright. 
- [[Gambler]]: Does not know if they’ve died to their own ability. As a result, could gamble incorrectly and die, then be chosen by the Al-Hadikhia and choose live and therefore be resurrected and would not know whether they gambled correctly or not as the net effect is the same.
- [[Gossip]]/[[Flowergirl]]/[[Town Crier]]/[[Undertaker]]/[[Godfather]]: If the relevant character is dead during the day and their ability is satisfied, then they are resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia that night, they get their info/their ability works that night. 
- [[Grandmother]]: If the grandchild dies to the Al-Hadikhia, the [[Grandmother]] dies too, but similar to the [[Gambler]], can then be resurrected in the same night and therefore not know if their ability worked or not. Also, just for the fun of it I’ll point this out, though I’m recommending you never give this much confirmation: A, the grandchild, could be the first Al-Hadikhia pick and choose to die, also killing the [[Grandmother]]. The [[Grandmother]] could be the second pick and choose to live, coming back to life and therefore learning a new name and character (B, the new grandchild). 
- [[Innkeeper]]: See above examples replacing [[Soldier]] with “[[Innkeeper]] protected”. Also, order again matters, so if the [[Innkeeper]] dies to the Al-Hadikhia first, their targets are no longer protected after that. Can also drunk the Al-Hadikhia, but I’d recommend against this as if there aren’t many reasons for an Al-Hadikhia to be blocked then it’s fairly academic to execute both [[Innkeeper]] targets and the evil team cannot bluff this with just the Al-Hadikhia ability. 
- [[Juggler]]: If resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia gets a completely fresh ability, so can juggle the following day and get answers that night. 
- [[Lycanthrope]]: If successful, prevents all deaths regardless of live/die choices by Al-Hadikhia targets, so the net effect of a [[Lycanthrope]] successful kill is that no-one can die to the Al-Hadikhia but players _can_ be resurrected. 
- [[Mathematician]]: If a [[Soldier]] or one of the other protective characters prevents an Al-Hadikhia kill, this registers to the [[Mathematician]] as a malfunction. It does not, however, register for the [[Fool]] if they end up dying twice to the Al-Hadikhia in the same night as the [[Fool]] ability has worked as intended. So a Fool dying twice would give a 1 to the [[Mathematician]] for the Al-Hadikhia ability but not the [[Fool]] ability. 
- [[Mayor]]: Can bounce an Al-Hadikhia kill from themselves to another player if they choose to die. This, like the [[Soldier]] situation, can result in all three players being alive at the end of the Al-Hadikhia activation, which can result in all three players dying. Which, again, the [[Mayor]] can bounce. So [[Mayor]] and players A and B can be chosen by Al-Hadikhia and announced to town, then [[Mayor]] says die and bounces to C, who dies, then all three should die because A and B said live and all three are therefore alive, so the [[Mayor]] can bounce again to D, leaving A, B, C and D as dying in the night despite only [[Mayor]], A and B being announced as Al-Hadikhia targets. Obviously you should never do this as it all-but hard-confirms the Mayor and the Al-Hadikhia can’t easily stop them surviving to F3, but it’s a fun interaction! 
- [[Monk]]: Protecting an Al-Hadikhia target means they cannot die from the Al-Hadikhia but can be resurrected – resurrection is not “harmful”! 
- [[Philosopher]]: Again, order is relevant – Philo-drunking can be removed by being killed before the original of the character, so it’s possible, for example, for a Philo-Ravenkeeper and an actual [[Ravenkeeper]] to both be killed by the Al-Hadikhia on the same night and both get sober info, provided they’re killed in that order. If the Philo dies, the ability they previously gained is lost and therefore if they are resurrected they are resurrected without any abilities other than the [[Philosopher]]. Yes, a Philo that died while they had an “even if dead” ability would maintain that ability while they are dead, however, when any character is resurrected, they are treated as being newly created, so no abilities are maintained.
- [[Pixie]]: Same as Philosopher but ability-gaining rather than drunk-removing. 
- [[Poppy Grower]]: If killed by the Al-Hadikhia, the evil team learn each other immediately. Generally, if this isn’t going to affect the other Al-Hadikhia choices, then I’d wait until after the other choices to tell the evil players, but if a Minion or, worryingly, two, have been picked by the Al-Hadikhia along with the Poppy Grower, you should tell them before waking them for their Al-Hadikhia choice as it’ll affect their decision. 
- [[Preacher]]: If a Minion dies and is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia, the [[Preacher]] having selected them and removing their ability is unaffected as long as the [[Preacher]] is sober/alive – the player did not stop being a Minion when they died, so the [[Preacher]] ability removal was in effect throughout. If the [[Preacher]] themselves dies and is resurrected, however, it’s a fresh ability, so the [[Preacher]] needs to start over taking them to church. 
- [[Sailor]]: Can drunk Al-Hadikhia but as per [[Innkeeper]], generally don’t do this. 
- [[Snake Charmer]]: If an ex-Demon-now-SC is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia, they are no longer poisoned as the resurrected SC is treated as a completely new instance of this character. 
- [[Barber]]: If killed by the Al-Hadikhia, the Al-Hadikhia should be re-woken to swap characters. This can happen part way through the waking choices if the [[Barber]] chooses to die and isn’t the last player to choose life or death. However, if the Al-Hadikhia swaps themselves using the [[Barber]] ability mid-activation, the Al-Hadikhia ability would leave play and therefore no more players would be woken and live or die. 
- [[Goon]]: If chosen, makes the Al-Hadikhia drunk immediately and therefore instantly ceases the Al-Hadikhia ability, preventing any announcements being made. 
- [[Klutz]]/[[Moonchild]]: Although they might choose death on being woken for their Al-Hadikhia choice, they don’t actually know if they died until it’s announced in the morning as they could be protected by another character, so their choice would happen publicly in the morning. 
- [[Lunatic]]: If the [[Lunatic]] thinks they are the Al-Hadikhia, their choices are shown to the real Demon. Obviously this means that if the real Demon is a different Demon, the [[Lunatic]] will find out immediately. 
- [[Sweetheart]]: Makes someone drunk as soon as they die. So could drunk a character that dies later within the Al-Hadikhia choices or, technically, the Al-Hadikhia themselves, immediately ending the Al-Hadikhia activation at that moment but generally don’t do this as it confirms the [[Sweetheart]] as good as well as wiping out the Demon ability. 
- [[Tinker]]: Technically can choose to live for their Al-Hadikhia choice, then die before the other players have made their choices, ensuring that one of the three is dead and preventing an “all three die” situation. However, I can’t see a situation where you’d allow this because either a) the [[Tinker]] will generally be happy to say die or b) why would you be so harsh to an Al-Hadikhia who was about to get a successful triple kill? (which I can confirm isn’t exactly common!) 
- [[Mastermind]]: jinxed - "Only 1 jinxed character can be in play. Evil players start knowing which player and character it is." 
- [[Pit-Hag]]: If a new Demon is made and one of the two is an Al-Hadikhia and you don’t immediately choose to kill the Al-Hadikhia before they wake, you can wake the Al-Hadikhia, take their choices and do the normal announcement/choice process, but can choose to kill or protect anyone throughout the process using the [[Pit-Hag]] ability. Note that it’s generally a good idea to kill the Al-Hadikhia if they or a second Demon in an Al-Hadikhia game are created by the [[Pit-Hag]] as otherwise they can resurrect the other Demon relatively easily and have two living evil Demons. 
- [[Scarlet Woman]]: jinxed - "If there are two living Al-Hadikhias, the [[Scarlet Woman]] Al-Hadikhia becomes the [[Scarlet Woman]] again." – i.e. if the Scarlet-Woman-turned-Al-Hadikhia resurrects the Al-Hadikhia, they revert to being the [[Scarlet Woman]] rather than staying the Demon themselves as well. 
- [[Widow]]: If resurrected by Al-Hadikhia, immediately wakes to see the grimoire and choose a player to be poisoned. This does not _have_ to happen in between the Al-Hadikhia kills, but should if their choice of poison could affect what happens when the other players selected by the Al-Hadikhia that night make their choices. A good player should also be told that a [[Widow]] is in play. 
- [[Barista]]: Please don’t [[Barista]]-double an Al-Hadikhia. But if you were insane enough to do so, the entire choosing process and killing would happen twice, from the Al-Hadikhia choosing 3 players and those players deciding live/die etc through until the end of the activation, then back to the start and do it all again. True/sober/healthy doesn’t affect the running of the Al-Hadikhia ability unless they would otherwise have been poisoned/drunk. If a player affected by [[Barista]] doubling is selected by the Al-Hadikhia, they do not choose twice, as their ability is doubled, not the Al-Hadikhia’s ability. 
- [[Storm Catcher]]: The Storm Caught player can be picked by the Al-Hadikhia but cannot die as a result. However, this can be a way to force a good player who doesn’t want to die to do so, because you can reduce the field to the Storm Caught player and two characters who don’t want to die, one of whom is going to have to choose to do so or both of them will instead.
## Tips and Tricks
- On the second night, all players will know that an Al-Hadikhia is in play. There is little point generating discussion about which Demon might be in play.

- Choose three good players, in order to maximise the number of deaths per night. Good players will often all choose to live, meaning three good players will die. This may hint to the good team that the dead players are actually good, but it's worth it. This strategy is particularly useful if the remaining evil players are all alive, since the evil team will have a significant voting advantage for the rest of the game.

- Choose an evil player every so often, to make that evil player look good, or to guarantee at least one death per night. Beginner Al-Hadikhia players may always choose good players, so choosing some evil players, particularly early on, can really help. It is usually best if the two good players that you chose, die, while the single evil player that you chose, lives. But having all three players die is also very helpful, since the final day approaches quicker. Avoid the situation where the two good players live and the evil player dies. The evil player you chose should have a clue as to what the other players are going to choose, to plan their own life accordingly.

- Choose yourself at some stage, particularly if all other players have already been chosen previously this game. If you are the single player that has not been chosen by the Al-Hadikhia, that makes you look VERY suspicious. To avoid this, choose yourself one night - just make sure that you choose two other players who are very likely to choose to die, because you will need to choose to live. Talking to a Minion beforehand, and arranging that they will choose to die while you choose to live, guarantees that you will not accidentally kill yourself, since it doesn't matter what the third player chooses.

- The more information you have about which characters are in play, the better. Some characters, like the [[Ravenkeeper]], [[Sage]], or [[Farmer]], will want to die at night. Some characters, like the [[Flowergirl]], [[Balloonist]] or [[Poppy Grower]] will want to stay alive. Some characters, like the [[Fisherman]] or [[Slayer]] may not be sure if they want to live or die, depending on how useful their ability was or will be. If you know which players are which characters, you can arrange to choose three players that are all likely to live, or all likely to die. Either way, it's helpful.

- Choose dead Minions occasionally. You can raise Minions from the dead, and this can be crucial, particularly if they get to use their ability again, such as the [[Assassin]] or the [[Poisoner]]. Alive Minions can also vote more often - very handy. Be aware of choosing Minions that will telegraph their ability to the good team, such as the [[Pit-Hag]] or the [[Cerenovus]]. If the public nature of these abilities too obviously let's the good team know which players specifically are Minions, this could cause trouble, outweighing the benefit of another alive Minion.

- Choose dead good players occasionally. While it certainly isn't helpful to give Townsfolk players their ability back, these players may look like Minions to the good team, confusing their information. Also, you can be fairly certain that good, dead players will choose to live again, so you can use that to decide which other players to choose. Every life or death decision of a player that you know beforehand, means you can choose players more wisely.

- Some players will always choose life at night, out of uncertainty or fear. Where possible, choose three of these types of players all at once at night.

- Talk to your Minions. They may be able to provide you with information on who to choose at night, and who not to. This is true even moreso than a regular Demon, because not only are you choosing which characters you want to kill, but you are choosing which combinations of characters. Your Minions may also provide you with information about which character they are, and if they are ok to die at night... and what their story will be afterwards.

- If an evil player is chosen at night, even yourself, plan what you are going to say the following day. Having a valid reason for choosing life (or death, as the case may be) is easier when you've thought about it beforehand. Avoid making Minions choose life or death without prior warning, and having to Scramble to come up with reasons for their choice. If you are playing with characters that allow you to die, like the [[Scarlet Woman]], it is also good practice to having your own night-choice and reasons pre-planned.

## Fighting the Al-Hadikhia
- Don't be scared of choosing to die at night. Someone will. It's just a question of who, and how many. If you are a character than can afford to die, choose death. This will mean that, on average, the characters that can't afford to die will live through the night.

- If players live through the night, assume that they are good, or at least are not the Demon. Particulary if you are playing with new players. Generally, the Al-Hadikhia won't choose themself, so avoiding executing the players that have lived through the night, any night, may mean you end up executing the Demon by default.

- If players die at night in an unusual pattern, ask why. Good player will usually have a good reason as to why they chose death, and a good reason why they chose life. If the reasons that you are hearing don't make sense, you may have found an evil player.

- If a player is returned to life, don't execute them. You may not know which character they are, but they aren't the Demon!

- Discuss as a group what your planned night-preferences are. If you signal that you will choose death, if chosen, that means that other players can choose life if you are chosen. If you signal that will choose life if chosen, that means that the other two players will need to consider dying, to avoid all players choosing life.

- The Demon will likely be listening to any discussions about who is planning on choosing what, and will attack people based on that knowledge. Change your mind at the last minute without telling anyone, to throw the Demon's plans into disarray.

- Pay particular attention to nights where only 4 or 5 players are still alive. Unlike most Demons, which only kill one player per night, the Al-Hadikhia can kill three players per night. If you go to the night phase with 4 or 5 players alive, it will be game-over if the good players choose poorly. This night is the important one. Take your time to think, and make the right call.

- Don't try to break the "Silence" rule (by signalling to the other players what your choice was) by adhering to the letter of the law, but not the spirit. At night, the Al-Hadikhia character acts in silence so that the players don't communicate their thoughts to each other. The game is more fun this way. Don't break the rules on a technicality, as the Storyteller will adjust the rules to disallow this behaviour in the future.
