---
Type: Minion
Home Script: Experimental
Wins: "1"
Losses:
---
# "If you are executed, all but 3 players die. 1 minute later, the player with the most players pointing at them, dies."

## Summary
The Boomdandy explodes when executed, killing most other players.

- If the Boomdandy is executed, the Storyteller kills other players, one at a time, until only three are left alive.
- The Demon will be one of the remaining three players (_otherwise, the game would be over_).
- The players have one minute to decide who to kill next. There is no further nomination or execution today. Instead, all players point at the player they want to die. When one minute is up, the Storyteller counts the number of fingers pointed at each player. If it is a tie, then night falls (_and evil probably wins due to the Demon killing that night_).
- Even dead players who have no vote token may point.
- Players may change who they are pointing at up until the minute ends, at which point their decision is final.
- The Boomdandy only explodes due to an execution. Deaths by other means, such as via a Golem or a Psychopath, don’t count. If the Boomdandy is executed but doesn’t die (_due to a Devil’s Advocate etc._), they still explode.
- If a character can’t die, such as the Fool or the Sailor, the Storyteller may rule that four players remain alive after a Boomdandy explosion.

## How to Run
If the Boomdandy is executed, declare that the Boomdandy has exploded. Enter the circle, put your hand out towards the Boomdandy, and rotate around the circle. (_Similar to running a vote._) When your hand reaches a living player, say “You live” or say “You die” as that player **dies**. When you have completed the circle, three players will be alive, including the Demon. Then, set a timer on a watch or phone for one minute. When the time runs out, ask all players to immediately freeze (_to stay still_) while you count the number of players who are pointing at each player. The player with the most fingers pointed at them, **dies**. This will end the game, since just two players are alive, so declare which team has won.

>As the timer counts down, you may count the seconds out loud, or remain silent—whatever is more dramatic! If you don’t have a timer handy, guessing roughly a minute is fine.
### Examples
>Amy is the Boomdandy. She is executed. She explodes, killing all players except for the [[Po]], the [[Witch]], and the [[Moonchild]]. Frantically, all players start pointing at each other, and talking about who should be pointed at. After a minute, the Storyteller calls “Freeze” and the [[Witch]] has the most number of fingers pointed at them, and dies. Evil wins.

## Discord How to Run
When the Boomdandy is executed, announce they die or do not die (as applicable) as usual. Then, before night, announce that more players have died until all but three players have been killed by the Boomdandy ability. These can be killed and announced in any order. Note that this does not overpower death-prevention, so you must kill in the right order to remove protection if desired (primarily relevant for Tea Lady). It does, however, include Travellers, so all Travellers should almost always be killed using the Boomdandy ability in order to leave three Town/Outsider/Minion/Demons alive and not end the game immediately. 

Note that the Boomdandy ability specifies that all but 3 players die, not that only 3 players are left alive. This means if you have an unused Fool or a sober Sailor etc, there could be 4 or more players left alive after you’ve used the Boomdandy ability to attempt to kill all but 3 players: the Boomdandy ability attacked the Fool and Sailor but did not kill them, plus the 3 players that were not attacked with the Boomdandy ability. 

After you have announced the deaths (and marked them as dead in the grimoire and had the players do so in the town square) announce that players have 1 minute to discuss. You can make this countdown open to the players or just count it off privately. At the end of 1 minute, stop all conversation, all players (living or dead) must immediately point to a player (living or dead). Players may point before the deadline and change their minds as often as they like up until the deadline when it is locked in. If a player is not pointing at the deadline, ignore their point as they get an advantage by seeing where others are pointing before pointing themselves. 

In the online/Discord/Zoom space, I would recommend having all players change their nicknames to the name of the player they’re pointing at, allowing a quick and easy count of how many points any given player has (as who points at whom does not matter). 

This pointing is not a vote, therefore no vote-related abilities such as [[Butler]]/[[Legion]]/[[Bureaucrat]]/[[Gunslinger]]/[[Judge]]/[[Thief]]/[[Voudon]] etc have any effect on it. Dead players also do not need a vote token in order to point, nor do they lose their vote token when pointing. 

If there is a single player with the highest number of players pointing at them, they die immediately if they can (and if they do the game is most likely over as there will now be only 2 living players). If there is a tie, no-one dies and the day ends (assuming no [[Butcher]]). If the day ends, the game is probably still over, as the Demon will most likely kill that night (except for [[Zombuul]]), so it’s in the good team’s interests to not tie the majority of the time. 

If the Boomdandy is drunk or poisoned when executed, nothing happens. If the Boomdandy dies through another non-execution means, nothing happens.

## Interesting Interactions
Broader point: the Boomdandy is a Minion and killing during the day, so anything that interacts with players/characters being killed at night or being killed by the Demon does not interact here. ([[Farmer]]/[[Grandmother]]/[[Innkeeper]]/[[Lycanthrope]]/[[Mayor]]/[[Monk]]/[[Ravenkeeper]]/[[Sage]]/[[Soldier]]) 
Similarly anything which is triggered on death for something to happen at night will not happen until night, after the pointing. ([[Bounty Hunter]]/[[Choirboy]]/[[Poppy Grower]]/[[Barber]]) 

- [[Artist]]/[[Fisherman]]/[[Savant]]: Can choose to ask their question/get their advice/info within the post-execution minute if they want to, but this does not extend the time limit. 
- [[Cult Leader]]: Can technically call for a cult in this time under RAW if they are still alive and didn’t call for a cult earlier in the day, I would generally disallow this as it is either going to go over the time limit or take up a disproportionate amount of the time limit which is intended for discussion. 
- [[Fool]]: Cannot be killed twice by the Boomdandy boom, so if you have a [[Fool]] with an unused ability, they will be surviving the Boomdandy boom, although if they are both "killed" once during the boom and then killed again from the pointing, they would die. 
- [[Gossip]]: Can gossip during the minute if they haven’t already that day, but probably pointless/not advised! 
- [[Mayor]]: Cannot win the game if no-one dies from the Boomdandy pointing, as even though there are 3 alive at the end of the day, the Boomdandy was executed earlier that day. 
- [[Minstrel]]: As soon as the Boomdandy is executed and dies they are made drunk by the [[Minstrel]], so the rest of their ability does not happen. 
- [[Pacifist]]/[[Saint]]/[[Devil’s Advocate]]/[[Goblin]]/[[Mastermind]]/[[Leviathan]]: Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution, so these abilities are disregarded. 
- [[Philosopher]]: Dying to Boomdandy might result in their duplicated character becoming sober. 
- [[Pixie]]: Might gain an ability through their target Townsfolk dying. 
- [[Sailor]]: If sober on the day the Boomdandy is executed, cannot die, so must remain alive. 
- [[Slayer]]: May act during the minute. Note this is _extraordinarily_ powerful in this context, so probably advised to kill an unused Slayer. 
- [[Tea Lady]]: You can kill in any order to allow the [[Tea Lady]] to proc or not proc. So, for example, you can kill the [[Tea Lady]] before either neighbour. Or you could kill the evil neighbour to the [[Tea Lady]] and then have the [[Tea Lady]] save their new good neighbours. Or, and this is getting complex now, you can choose to attack a [[Tea Lady]] neighbour while they’re safe, then kill the [[Tea Lady]], then kill everyone else, leaving 4 alive, which could back up a Demon [[Fool]]/[[Sailor]] bluff. This shouldn’t be done often, as it’s putting a lot of spin in the Demon’s favour with your choices, but it’s important to note that it’s possible so players cannot assume that any time there are 4 left alive, the one claiming a role that cannot die is guaranteed good. You can also decide to not kill the [[Tea Lady]] and “kill” the TL neighbours with the Boomdandy ability. This will leave the [[Tea Lady]] as one of the 3 that weren’t attacked by the Boomdandy, plus both neighbours (if they were both good), plus the other 2 that weren’t attacked, for 5 alive. Note this pretty much hard-confirms the [[Tea Lady]] and both neighbours, plus it all but guarantees that there will be 2 kills left for town (one from Boomdandy pointing and one from execution the following day since there will be 5, Boomdandy kill to 4, Demon kill at night down to F3 and one more execution to end the game), which is sufficient to kill both players not involved in the [[Tea Lady]] saving, so you should almost never do it as it can result in a simple guaranteed game-win situation for good. 
- [[Acrobat]]: Ability is only checked at night, so if the [[Acrobat]] survives into the living 3 and one of the other two living players is drunk or poisoned, the [[Acrobat]] would not die until that night. 
- [[Goon]]: Is not turned evil nor do they make the Boomdandy drunk, the Boomdandy is not choosing the [[Goon]] with their ability. 
- [[Klutz]]: At whatever point you declare the [[Klutz]] is dead, the [[Klutz]] should interject to choose an alive (at that point) player. See “Thoughts on who to kill” for more on this. 
- [[Moonchild]]: See [[Klutz]], but less critical for the game as to what they do. 
- [[Mutant]]/[[Cerenovus]]: Mad player can be executed after the Boomdandy’s execution for breaking madness – this would almost certainly end the game as it would make it only 2 living players, the Boomdandy’s resulting 3, minus the [[Mutant]]/[[Cerenovus]] target. 
- [[Sweetheart]]: Makes someone drunk when they die. Usually this should be a player that is also dying to the Boomdandy ability. Technically you can make the Boomdandy drunk when the [[Sweetheart]] dies and immediately stop killing people and go straight to night without any pointing, but this is a massive dick move – using an Outsider very strongly to help the good team and confirming both a good and evil player in the process. 
- [[Tinker]]: Technically can survive the Boomdandy and then die immediately afterwards to end the game in evil’s favour but, you know, if I have to tell you not to do that, you shouldn’t be allowed behind a grimoire. 
- [[Devil’s Advocate]]: If the Boomdandy is executed but does not die, they still proc. Bearing in mind this hard-confirms them as Boomdandy, it’s generally a good idea to make sure the Boomdandy is one of the ones that dies due to their own ability.
- [[Evil Twin]]: If you leave both twins alive as well as the Demon for the Boomdandy 3, evil guaranteed wins. You can, if you choose, just leave the two twins and a third party alive, to make the Boomdandy choice which of the two twins dies. See “Thoughts on who to kill” for more. 
- [[Scarlet Woman]]: If Boomdandy deaths happen in the right order, the SW can become the Demon, as long as the Demon died with more than 4 alive. 
- [[Lil’ Monsta]]: If the Boomdandy is babysitting and there is no [[Scarlet Woman]] or [[Evil Twin]] pair alive, the game ends because even if there are kills down to 3 alive, the Demon is dead. However, if there is a [[Scarlet Woman]], the Demon would jump. If there is an [[Evil Twin]] pair alive, the Demon can be dead and there would just be 3 alive including both twins. In both cases, all deaths are caused by the Demon, so all the Demon-death abilities would be relevant again. ([[Soldier]]/[[Grandmother]] etc) 
- [[Lleech]]: Can be killed by killing the host, so only applicable with an [[Evil Twin]] pair. Otherwise the [[Lleech]] and their host both have to be in the final 3. The [[Lleech]] player can be attacked using the Boomdandy ability and left alive, resulting in 4 left alive after all the kills have gone through. Please do not kill the host and therefore the [[Lleech]] if a Scarlet Woman is in play as that results in a broken situation where the SW-turned-[[Lleech]] should have a host, but hasn’t yet had a chance to choose one and so cannot die. This would guarantee an evil win in almost all situations as the SW-turned-[[Lleech]] will pick a host from the remaining living players that night, then kill a different player to win. 
- [[Zombuul]]: Would be single-killed by the Boomdandy ability and then there can be 3 other living players plus the once-dead [[Zombuul]], so the Boomdandy pointing players would need to point to the appearing-dead [[Zombuul]] to kill them. Happily for the good team _**many players died that day**_, so the [[Zombuul]] does not get to kill tonight, so even if the Boomdandy pointing results in a death, the town would definitely get one more day as there will be 2 living players plus an appearing-dead [[Zombuul]].
- [[Apprentice]]: Don’t give them the Boomdandy ability, it doesn’t do anything on exile… 
- [[Barista]]: If the Boomdandy is [[Barista]]-doubled on a day they’re not executed, nothing happens. On a day they are executed, they try to kill N (number of total players) minus 3, then try to kill N minus 3 players again (these do not need to be the same players), then when the pointing minute is complete, the player with the most pointing at them dies twice (if applicable). Note this means that a [[Barista]]-doubled Boomdandy can kill an unused [[Fool]] before the pointing starts or a living [[Zombuul]]/unused [[Fool]] can be killed twice to end the game with the pointing. 
- [[Butcher]]: Can nominate again after a Boomdandy activation on the main execution of the day – this is usually the only way the good team can save themselves from an accidental tie in the Boomdandy pointing. However, this requires there to have been some other reason for more than 3 players to be alive after the Boomdandy kills as ordinarily if there was a [[Butcher]] and 2 others left alive, the game would end with an evil win. 
- [[Deviant]]: Can die to Boomdandy as it is not an exile. 
- [[Gangster]]: Can kill during Boomdandy minute. See [[Butcher]] re numbers after the Boomdandy kills. 
- [[Doomsayer]]: The only time a player can Doomsay during the Boomdandy minute is if there are more than 3 players left alive due to one of the above exceptions as in all other cases there will only be 3 players living and therefore the [[Doomsayer]] has no ability. 
- [[Storm Catcher]]: If there is a storm caught character alive, they cannot be killed by the Boomdandy ability. You can, however, remove the [[Storm Catcher]] from play immediately before the Boomdandy execution and kill the previously storm caught character at will.

### Thoughts on who to kill 
In general, when choosing deaths with the Boomdandy, it’s going to be very specific to the exact characters in play and alive. However, there’s some general guidelines I’d point you towards: In most cases, you need to leave the Demon alive in the final 3 as otherwise you’re ending the game in good’s favour using a Minion ability. However, if there is an [[Evil Twin]] pair both still alive, you can choose to kill the Demon as well and leave the choice for town to choose between the two twins with a non-Demon third party as the 3rd. Note that, as usual, you cannot make this final 3 the Twins and the Demon as that’s an automatic Demon win. 

In the opposite vein, it’s generally a good idea to not leave hard-confirmed characters alive. If there’s a confirmed [[Virgin]] and [[Professor]] in this final 3, it’s not a difficult challenge as to who to vote for and that’s not fair on the evil team who’ve managed to get their Boomdandy executed. Having said that, it can be fun, if a [[Klutz]] has been killed by the Boomdandy and you’ve paused the kills to allow them to choose a player, to leave the [[Klutz]]-picked player alive to allow the doubt as to whether the [[Klutz]] claim was actually the [[Klutz]]. 

For once, for a final 3 situation, it’s not a mechanical problem to have only evil left alive as the Boomdandy kill does not require a nomination, just the pointing, but this can be very hard on good to have to work out exactly which of the evil players is actually the Demon. 

Finally, as observed there are a few abilities that can prevent the Boomdandy coming down to a final 3 and instead having 4 or even 5 left alive. While this can be interesting, it should generally be used sparingly, as it soft-confirms a few players (the player claiming [[Sailor]] or [[Fool]] is _almost_ certainly good etc). See [[Tea Lady]] under “Interesting interactions” for more on this.
## Tips and Tricks
- Get executed as early as you can. The earlier that you are executed, the less information that the good team will have collected, and the more randomly they will be guessing when it comes time to point to 1 in 3 players.

- Bluff as ridiculously as you can. If the good players see through your bluff and execute you, that's great. If the good players don't see through your bluff, then the bluff is successful, and that is still incredibly helpful. Claim to be a [[Juggler]] who guessed five players correctly. Claim to be a [[Virgin]] after the [[Empath]] confirmed the [[Washerwoman]] as good and the [[Washerwoman]] nominated you. Claim to be the [[Atheist]]. The sky is the limit!

- Deliberately make a mistake with your bluff, so that it looks like you are an evil player bluffing as a good player that has misunderstood the good character's ability. Claim to be a [[Fortune Teller]] who got a "two" from the Storyteller. Or claim to be a [[Town Crier]] that woke during the first night. If you appear like an evil player that accidentally made a mistake, the good team might execute you.

- Pay attention to what information is being shared in the group. Give contradictory information, and let the good team come to their own conclusions. Sooner or later, the lens of suspicion will fall on you.

- When nominated, claim that you are drunk or poisoned, that there is no reason to execute you, claim that a well-trusted player is evil, or otherwise give a noncommittal defense. If you stay silent, the good team may suspect that you are the Boomdandy and not execute you. If you give a solid reason that the good team should not execute you, such as providing a plausible explanation of which players are good and evil, then you risk the good team believing you and keeping you alive! Pay attention to what kind of defences players usually give in your group that end with that player being executed, and give exactly that kind of defence when you are nominated.

- Tell your other evil players that you are the Boomdandy. Do it as early as possible, so that they know to vote for you at every opportunity. Also, the Demon won't be tempted to kill you at night to make you look like a good player.

- Bluff as a character that may sometimes want to be executed for the good of the good team, such as the [[Recluse]].

- After exploding, everyone will know you are a Minion. Feel free to point at any player you wish, even the Demon. The players will be too busy panicking to figure out which player is the Demon to second-guess whether you are the type of person to point at their own Demon or not. Make sure that you always point at a non-Demon player at the very last second though - since every vote counts. You can even ask the Storyteller for a ten second count-down to make sure you get in at the VERY last second.

- After exploding, if you notice that the players are using the knowledge that you know who the Demon is to change who they point to, change who you point to. Then change again if the group discussion takes this new pointed-player into account. You can even ask the Storyteller not to do a ten second count-down, to keep the mystery going as to who your "final" decision is going to be.

- If you are an evil player, but not the Boomdandy, conspire to make the Boomdandy look evil. Bluff as Townsfolk that get information on evil characters such as the [[Investigator]] or [[Sage]], and point to the Boomdandy player. If Townsfolk players are already sharing information that make the Boomdandy look evil, make those Townsfolk players look good, by pretending to be such characters as [[Empath]] or [[Exorcist]] . If the good players come to believe the Boomdandy is evil and nominate them of their own accord, they are more likely to vote for them.

- If you are an evil player, but not the Boomdandy, conspire to make the Boomdandy look good but get them executed "for the good of the Town." There are some instances where executing a good player is beneficial to the good team. Bluff as a character such as the [[Undertaker]] to encourage this.

- If you are the Demon, disassociate yourself from the Boomdandy as much as possible. Since the good team will know for a fact who the Boomdandy is, you don't want anything that links the two of you after the Boomdandy explodes. If you think that there is too much of an association between the two of you, such as a [[Clockmaker]] who knows how far apart you are, talk to the other evil players and plan to avoid executing the Boomdandy - it isn't always helpful.

- If you are the Demon, stay silent, or say things that make you look evil. This may make good players believe that you are the Boomdandy and they may avoid executing you. This is risky, as it telegraphs to the good team that you are evil.

- If you are a Minion, and the Boomdandy has not yet exploded, keep your options open as to how suspicious you want yourself to look. If you look too good, and the Storyteller keeps you alive after the Boomdandy explodes, you may accidentally convince good players to point at players other than you, which means that they are more likely to be pointing at the Demon. If you look too evil, you may accidentally get executed before the Boomdandy does. The best scenario is that the Storyteller keeps you alive after the explosion, you look more suspicious than the Demon does, and lots of good players therefore point at you to die.

- When the players are frantically pointing at each other, and there are three players alive, don't be too fussed about getting a tie. If nobody dies due to the pointing, the game continues but night will fall immediately since there has already been an execution today. That night, the Demon will (presumably) kill a player, and evil wins.

- When the players are frantically pointing at each other, and there are four players alive due to some strange situation where players couldn't die, make sure there is no tie. If the game continues and night falls with four players alive, there will be one more day of executions, and that is not preferable.

## Fighting the Boomdandy
- Pay attention to which players seem to be enthusiastic about dying. It doesn't matter what the reason is. Maybe they are claiming to have already used their ability? Maybe they are claiming to be a hindrance to the Town? Maybe they are nominating themselves because there is a [[Vortox]] on the script? Pay attention to silly reasons for players wanting to be executed. Pay attention to reasonable logic for players wanting to be executed. And be very, very cautious about executing them.

- Let the group know that the Boomdandy is on the script, and is a possibility that it is in play. Make sure that all players know how the character works. Some Minions, like the [[Cerenovus]] can be talked about after their ability has activated. But other Minions, like the [[Mastermind]] need to be talked about and understood before their ability activates. Let all players know how it works, and there will be less panic afterwards.

- If you think the Boomdandy is in play, don't be too concerned about confirming good players as good. Usually, it is a good strategy to do this, as finding out which players are good and then keeping those players alive for the final day lets you know who isn't the Demon. However, when the Boomdandy explodes, the Storyteller is almost certainly going to kill all the trustworthy good players and instead keep the most suspicious-looking players alive, so that the good team has a difficult time choosing who to point to afterwards. As such, even in the early game, it is much more useful to find out who is probably evil than who is probably good.

- If the good team has excellent information on what groups of players are on the same team, it may be beneficial to deliberately execute the Boomdandy. For example, if you know that either "Sarah, Evin and Michelle are on the same team" and that "Lachlan, Alex and Abdallah are on the same team", then knowing for certain that Michelle is the Boomdandy lets you know that Sarah and Evin are evil, and therefore that Lachlan, Alex, and Abdallah are all good. This is significant information, and if you think it is enough to win the game, then find and execute the Boomdandy.

- If the Boomdandy explodes, and you have no solid information on who to point to, see if you can get all players to point to one particular player. If that player needs to change, get all players to point at that new player instead. Even if everyone is pointing at the wrong player, the alternative of the good team spreading their votes between three players will all but guarantee an evil win. Even a tie will mean an evil win. It's better to have most people agree on a player than to let indecision and confusion mean that good doesn't coordinate. You can be sure that evil will coordinate.

- If the Boomdandy explodes, and you have solid information on who to point to, start pointing as early as you can. Get others to point as early as they can. You don't want good players to accidentally not point at all. Point to your player, don't change, and make short, powerful arguments as to why you are right and why others should point to the player you are pointing to as well. Unlike an execution, there isn't enough time to make longer, more rational arguments as to why you have the solution, there is only time for short and convincing sentences to get others to change their mind. If it looks like you are unable to convince enough people to your cause, then point at another player instead and encourage others to as well. A tie is to be avoided at all costs.

- If the Boomdandy explodes, use the fact that you now know one player that is a Minion to your advantage. Characters like the [[Noble]] or the [[Undertaker]], who may have learnt about Minions previously, may now be more trustworthy and their information more useful as a result. Even without such characters, knowing for a fact that one player is a Minion means that you may know who isn't a Minion. Whether these players are alive or dead, it may reveal further information. If you can hurry, this new information may give you a clue as to who to point to. The trick will be to convince others of your logic before the time runs out.
